
so this is my pipeline  
i make use of the struct.json file, i slice the reference audio at the 4 phrase wide window which we're evaluation all those 12 candidate audios for  
that window is further sliced into individual phrase as per struct.json  
this could've been done manually as well if struct.json not given (by detecting vad)  
now that i have reference audio and phrases that i care about, i use the swiftf0 library which made the audio profiling, feature extraction and pitch analysis super easy,  
i calculated the fundamental freq, confidence which was swiftf0's detection confidence lvl over the passed audio buffer to the method. I find a bool vad which is again available from the analysis results from swift f0 and same from frametimes. Frame times is the size of buffer of audio that make up 1 frame for swiftf0's analysis  
  
the biggest issue was alignment as the reference audio and candidates audio weren't exactly synced. So i couldn't apply simple correlation methods on them. through research I was able to find a method that exploits time-temporal distortions of small amounts and correlates data values accordingly, it was called DTW. I had no idea about DTW but i watched a few yt lectures and tutorials and found the math is pretty straighforward. And I didn't have to implement it from scratch as librosa library had a dtw method built into it. All i had to do was construct my cost matrix, i followed the rules of same element as 0 and diff element as their difference
  
So i had things figured out, feature extraction and then dtw for correlation but that turned out horrible as the candidate data weren't clean, they had noise, bg music and everything unlike ref audio. Hence the results we're wayy out of bounds of expectation.  
  
So i figured i'll denoise the audio files firstly and perform correlation based on it. So i created a simple denoising pipeline which used STFT on audio chunks. This was fast and easy and it honestly did a decent job but failed at another thing the curve it was considering as noise mask wasn't consistent. I didn't just need denoised audio i basically need raw vocals. acapalla type thing. So I tried a few other library (even facebook's demucus) but they were in vain as either they we're not upto the mark or very computationally expensive. Then I found this library called audio seperator. It had some models listed for usage, I finally settled for Kim_Vocal_2.onnx that performs decently (realtime) on an audio piece on my rig (i5 1200 UH and rtx 3050 cpu support only no cuda accelration) so every candidate i.e ~24 sec long was processed for 24 sec under vocal extraction. I scrapped my older denoising method. This 24 sec + a few sec of analysis by swiftf0 made every candidate processing about ~28-30 sec long.  
  
I then sliced my candidate audio as per offsets i.e i figured out when the voice was starting because some candidate audio had actual song lyrics starting at 0.5 sec mark or 0.7 or 0.8 and so on (these numbers are not exact as i manually heard them and estimating these numbers). So i calculated this offset by using the VAD i calculated for each candidate audio when i passed it through the PreProcessing pipeline. This was then summed with ref audio's window sizes to calculate rough window sizes for the candidate. This is how the candidates we're sliced. I already had the feature results for the entire candidate audio file, so i went ahead and just sliced them into windows corresponding to the windows  
  
Then I moved ahead with the correlation  
i used librosa's dtw method, calculated score per phrase then presented an aggregate avg for all the phrases and used that to rank the candidate audios. This was giving somewhat fine results for the audios that we're presented in the tracklist dataset but when i tested it with my manual audio recording, yt covers of the same song, this was wayy off. Like actual good covers with clear coherent phrases were being ranked below noisy tracks. I figured this was because they were not at same melody. So i did a melody normalization. Firstly converted all to cents then subtracted median cent per phrase then gave that to dtw to correlate against. This was giving much better results. But one thing was still off a few very noisy tracks had a better score than clean audios. It was because my vocal extraction was doing a decent job at extracting vocals but it also had some residue artifacts of noises inside the vocal only stem which was giving a fake edge/advantage to these noisy tracks. I decided to penalize noisy tracks. So to do this i figured I would have to run swift f0's analysis again on unclean noisy audio but then i saw, the vocal extraction method had already split out the vocals as well as instrumental stem. So i did the easiest (and maybe not the right thing), i used snr as read on internet, i calculated rms(energy) of both of these tracks then used a threshold value and if it exceeded that, i penalized the audio tracks. When i was at penalizing stuff, i realized people who sing the song at correct pitch, octave and melody should have a better score than off pitch people, so i introduced a modest penalty of 0.25 scaled on melody normalization as well it was scaled based on how cents were the candidate off from the reference audio. This gave me the results i was satisfied with